The problem with the initial interface
--------------------------------------
I didn't really understand how the control system is supposed to interact with other systems. The interface says that the elevator statuses are going to be "pushed" by some other component. But then the control system is supposed to "simulate" the elevators behavior, which doesn't really make sense to me, as the only way to get the simulation result is to "query the state of the elevators". But this very state is directly modified with "update status" method, so it's not clear how this goes along with the simulation. In short, it's not clear who has the ownership and control over the elevator movements. Should the system provide an elevator state upon query and then wait for asynchronous update notifications when the elevators take places according to the desired state?

It's also not clear if update commands and pickup requests are related in terms of their sequence, an example usage would be extremely helpful. There also should be some notion of time: obviously we should assume moving the elevator around takes some time (proportionate to the number of floors), probably as well as picking people up / letting them out.

Since I've had difficulties understanding the initial interface, I've come up with the one I could understand and would expect from such kind of system. It only has two methods: acceptRequest() and makeStep(). I imagine the control system as a board game player that moves "tokens" (elevators) around. On each step, there is some state of the elevators, each elevator is at one of the floors. Per step, every elevator can be either moved one floor in any direction, or open doors on the current floor and let passengers in/out. makeStep() method implements a player strategy obeying these rules and changes the internal representation of the elevators accordingly. The movements are expressed as commands and returned as the result of makeStep() method. acceptRequest() can be called numerous times between steps and this is how the system learns about pickup requests. With this interface, there automatically is a notion of time - every step takes one time unit and requests appear at integer time units infinitely fast. In real world, this probably would be an event-based system: the pushed buttons would trigger a pickup request event, and an elevator arriving at a floor would trigger something like update event from the initial interface. Still, the same strategy could be applied.

The class structure
-------------------
I have a ControlSystem class implementing the suggested interface. It has a structure for storing incoming requests by start floor and the ElevatorGroup structure holding the elevators state. For every elevator, there is an immutable part holding ID and the range of floors this elevator operates on (it could also hold elevator capacity); and mutable part, containing the current passengers, current floor, direction, and target floor. Passenger is a tuple of ID and target floor, and request is a tuple of start floor and a passenger. There are three kinds of commands: move, load, and unload.

The implementation
------------------
Everything except makeStep() is pretty straightforward. I use sets extensively, so all the lookups must be pretty fast and in constant time. 
The strategy sounds simple but turned out to be a bit difficult to implement because of several corner cases. The strategy is the following: when a request appears, the closest of the idle elevators is assigned to it and starts moving in its direction. The target floor of the elevator is set to the source floor of that request. If the elevator passes by another unassigned waiting passenger who also wants to go in the same direction as the elevator's target floor, no further than we were going to, we stop and let the passenger in. When the elevator reaches the target floor, it becomes idle (the elevator is either empty and we let people in, or it becomes empty since all people are out on this target floor) and can change direction. Since the elevator never changes direction while non-empty, no passenger will travel more than needed (although the wait time might be significant).
I didn't pay attention to the range of floors and capacity of the elevators, but they can also be taken into account.